---
layout: post
title:  "Docker 102 - The beauty of Dockerfiles"
date:   2019-09-04 22:49:00
categories: 
    - docker
---

# What is Dockerfiles

Is a file that contains instructions to create an image and running it the way you want.

## What is Docker Image

Docker image is a snapshot of a container. It's immutable and inert. Container is an instance of an image.

## Creating a Dockerfile

This is an example of code that we're gonna put inside a docker image after creating one from a dockerfile.

Python code to app.py

```python
from flask import Flask

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/")
def hello():
    return "hello world!"

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.run(host="0.0.0.0")
```

Example of Dockerfile that will build the image:

{% highlight docker %}
FROM python:3.6.1-alpine
RUN pip install flask
CMD ["python", "app.py"]
COPY app.py /app.py
{% endhighlight %}

There is no need to have python, pip, and flask installed. The vantage of using docker is that you don't need to have all installed to run the app, only need a container. After you finished using, just delete the container.

The dockerfile has all the instructions the built the image and have it running (container) the way you desire.

**FROM python:3.6.1-alpine** means that you're using a python 3.6.1 built-in Alpine image, you can see what have in the image looking for the tag in the official Python page on Docker Hub. More light the OS, faster is the deploy.

By security measures it's recommended to verify if the image you are using is the official from the app or language and if it's certified by Docker. Also, verify what have in the dockerfile.

**RUN pip install flask** is the call to run pip install flask command, which is the dependency of our app. Run serves to execute the following command to configure the container environment. Usually used to install dependencies or build the project.

**CMD ["python", "app.py"]** is the command that will be executed after you initialized the container You must be careful to only have one CMD for dockerfile. If have more than one, it will always execute the last. 

**COPY app.py /app.py** add a copy of app.py file inside the container in the /app.py folder. It looks kind of odd putting after CMD command, but because of layers, in case you change the file, the cache will only modify the last line in the image.
